    ACM, IRTF & ISOC Applied Networking Research Workshop 2016

                        Berlin, Germany
                    Saturday, July 16, 2016
                  https://irtf.org/anrw/2016/


*** CALL FOR PAPERS ***

The inaugural ACM, IRTF & ISOC Applied Networking Research Workshop
2016 (ANRW’16) is an academic workshop that provides a forum for
researchers, vendors, network operators and the Internet standards
community to present and discuss emerging results in applied
networking research. It is sponsored by ACM SIGCOMM, the Internet
Research Task Force (IRTF ) and the Internet Society (ISOC).

Researchers should consider submitting early/emerging results that
illustrate the scientific and engineering principles underlying the
Internet architecture, protocols and applications; that demonstrate
new capabilities, features, or extensions to the Internet protocol
layers; that enhance our understanding of how Internet protocols work
in real-world deployments or realistic test-beds; or that improve
Internet security and privacy, scalability, performance, and
robustness.

The ANRW’16 particularly encourages the submission of results that
could form the basis for future engineering work in the IETF, that
could change operational Internet practices, that can help better
specify Internet protocols, or that could influence further research
and experimentation in the IRTF.


*** TOPICS OF INTEREST ***

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to, applied work in the
following areas:

  * Evolution of the Internet architecture and deployment of new
    Internetworking paradigms
  * Naming, addressing, and routing for the future Internet
  * Development and deployment of new and improved transport protocols
  * Congestion control for heterogeneous networks and novel
    applications
  * Improvements to the security and privacy of Internet protocols
  * Studies that characterize Internet security, privacy or censorship
  * Measuring and understanding the behaviour and transparency of the
    Internet
  * Internetworking and semantic interoperability for
    resource-constrained devices
  * New approaches to network management, operations, and control
  * Better ways of specifying protocols, including usable techniques
    for protocol verification
  * Enabling global access to the Internet
  * Improving the energy efficiency of the Internet
  * Protocols and APIs for new Internet applications
  * New approaches to decentralized mobility management
  * Application of network programmability to the Internet


*** SUBMISSION TYPES ***

The ANRW accepts two types of submissions: full papers and short
papers.

* Full papers

  Full paper submissions should be complete academic papers on the
  topics above and may contain up to six pages of technical content,
  including figures, tables, any appendices, etc., optionally followed
  by a single additional page for references and acknowledgements only.

  Accepted full papers will be presented and discussed in depth at the
  workshop, and will be published in the ACM Digital Library.

* Short papers

  Short paper submissions are suitable for short position papers, for
  starting a discussion on new technical ideas, to present very early
  results, or to present other topics of interest to the community
  (software and tools, research initiatives or collaborative projects,
  major new funding vessels, etc.). They may contain up to two pages
  of content including figures, tables, any appendices, etc.,
  optionally followed by a single additional page for references and
  acknowledgements only.

  Accepted short papers will be briefly presented during the workshop,
  and will be published in the ACM Digital Library.

  Authors of accepted short papers may also bring a poster presenting
  its content to the workshop, for display and more in-depth
  discussion with interested participants during the breaks.


*** IMPORTANT DATES ***

Submission deadline:     May 23, 2016
Notification deadline:   June 17, 2016
Camera-ready deadline:   June 24, 2016


*** ORGANISING COMMITTEE ***

Programme chairs:

  * Lars Eggert (NetApp)
  * Colin Perkins (University of Glasgow)

Technical Programme Committee:

  * Aaron Falk (Akamai)
  * Gorry Fairhurst (University of Aberdeen)
  * Stephen Farrell (Trinity College Dublin)
  * Jana Iyengar (Google)
  * Dirk Kutscher (NEC Laboratories Europe)
  * Mirja Kühlewind (ETH Zürich)
  * Al Morton (AT&T)
  * Jörg Ott (Technische Universität München)
  * Arjuna Sathiaseelan (University of Cambridge)
  * Brian Trammell  (ETH Zürich)
  * Lixia Zhang (UCLA)

